Reverse-dependencies:

* This release reorganises some parts of a low-level semi-public
  API. All my packages that do are ready to go, and I had notified
  maintainers of other reverse-depends back on 10 April 2018. This
  release has been developed in a public repository, with everyone
  having access to the development source code since around this time
  last year.

* However, I have made an effort to provide backwards-compatibility
  shims that emulate the old API while providing deprecation
  warnings. As a result, the packages using the deprecated APIs may
  produce a large number deprecation warnings. I have implemented a
  mechanism by which each function only issues such a warning the
  first time it's called, however.

* Some methods (e.g., summary.formula) should no longer exported but
  rather be registered using S3method. I am forcing them to be
  exported for now, with a deprecation warning if they are called
  directly rather than through a generic or getS3method.

* All reverse- dependencies, imports, suggests, and enhances except
  for ergm.ego and tergm run through the R CMD check on my
  system. ergm.ego and tergm are maintained by me.

* Packages that import both ergm and statnet.common produce a
  "replacing previous import" warning on loading for functions
  colMeans.mcmc.list and sweep.mcmc.list. This release does not fix
  that, because there is currently one package on CRAN (btergm) that
  explicitly imports them from ergm (as opposed to importing from
  statnet.common and ergm wholesale). Once that package no longer uses
  the ergm's version, these two functions will be removed from ergm
  and the other packages (which import wholesale) will automatically
  switch to importing from statnet.common.

NOTEs:

* ergm is released under GPLv3 with attribution clause provided in
  file LICENSE.

* Of the non-methods that look like methods (coef.length.model,
  plot.mcmc.list.ergm, plot.network.ergm, and summary.statistics), all
  three are deprecated and will be removed in the next major release.

Other items:

* The vignette may take some time to build.

 

